Proofread and update the readme (#225)
tarantool/docker: README.md

# Tarantool Docker images

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [What is Tarantool](#what-is-tarantool)
- [Quickstart](#quickstart)
- [What's on board](#whats-on-board)
  - [Included modules](#included-modules)
  - [Data directories](#data-directories)
  - [Convenience tools](#convenience-tools)

> - [Versions, tags, and release policy](#versions-tags-and-release-policy)

Author: It's the Oxford comma, we use it in the docs. https://www.grammarly.com/blog/what-is-the-oxford-comma-and-why-do-people-care-so-much-about-it/

- [How to use these images](#how-to-use-these-images)
  - [Start a Tarantool instance](#start-a-tarantool-instance)
  - [Start a secure Tarantool instance](#start-a-secure-tarantool-instance)
  - [Connect to a running Tarantool instance](#connect-to-a-running-tarantool-instance)
  - [Start a master-master replica set](#start-a-master-master-replica-set)
  - [Add application code with a volume mount](#add-application-code-with-a-volume-mount)
  - [Build your own images](#build-your-own-images)

> - [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Environment variables](#environment-variables)
```

  - [Release policy](#release-policy)
  - [Exceptional cases](#exceptional-cases)
  - [How to build and push an image](#how-to-build-and-push-an-image)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## What is Tarantool

Tarantool is an in-memory computing platform which combines
a Lua application server and a database management system.
Read more about Tarantool at [tarantool.io](https://www.tarantool.io/en/developers/).

## Quickstart

To try out Tarantool, run this command:

```console
$ docker run --rm -t -i tarantool/tarantool
```

It will create a one-off Tarantool instance and open an interactive
console.
From there you can either type `tutorial()` or follow the
[documentation](https://www.tarantool.io/en/doc/latest/getting_started/getting_started_db/#using-a-docker-image).

## What's on board

The `tarantool/tarantool` images contain the Tarantool executable
and a combination of [Lua modules](#included-modules) and utilities often used in production.
They are designed to be a building block for modern services, and as such have a few
design choices that set them apart from the systemd-controlled Tarantool.

> We check these modules for compatibility with the Tarantool version included in the image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We check all these extensions for compatibility with the Tarantool version included in the image.
```
not to repeat "modules and utilities"

These images come in three flavors, based on three different images: `alpine:3.15`, `centos:7`
and `ubuntu:20.04`. Check them out:

```console
$ docker run --rm -t -i tarantool/tarantool:2.10.0
$ docker run --rm -t -i tarantool/tarantool:2.10.0-centos7
$ docker run --rm -t -i tarantool/tarantool:2.10.0-ubuntu
```

> Entry-point script in each of these these images uses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The entrypoint script in each of these images uses
```
AFAIK, the Docker command is ENTRYPOINT

[environment variables](#environment-variables)
to set various configuration options,
such as replication sources, memory limits, and so on.
If specified, the environment variables override the settings provided in your code.

> This way you can use `docker compose` or
> other orchestration and deployment tools to set those options.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This way, you can set options using `docker compose` or
other orchestration and deployment tools.

```

There are also a few [convenience tools](#convenience-tools) that make use of the fact that there
is only one Tarantool instance running in the container.

### Included modules

The following Lua modules are included in the build:

- [avro-schema](https://github.com/tarantool/avro-schema): Apache Avro scheme for your data.
- [connpool](https://github.com/tarantool/connpool): Keep a pool of connections to other Tarantool instances.
- [curl](https://github.com/tarantool/curl): HTTP client based on libcurl.
- [expirationd](https://github.com/tarantool/expirationd): Automatically delete tuples based on expiration time.
- [gis](https://github.com/tarantool/gis): Store and query geospatial data.

> - [gperftools](https://github.com/tarantool/gperftools): Collect CPU profile to find bottlenecks in your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [gperftools](https://github.com/tarantool/gperftools): Collect a CPU profile to find bottlenecks in your code.
```

> - [http](https://github.com/tarantool/http): Embedded HTTP server with flask-style routing support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [http](https://github.com/tarantool/http): Embedded HTTP server with Flask-style routing support.
```

> - [memcached](https://github.com/tarantool/memcached): Access Tarantool as if it was a Memcached instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [memcached](https://github.com/tarantool/memcached): Access Tarantool as if it was a memcached instance.
```
product name

- [metrics](https://github.com/tarantool/metrics): Metric collection library for Tarantool.
- [mqtt](https://github.com/tarantool/mqtt): Client for MQTT message brokers.
- [mysql](https://github.com/tarantool/mysql): Query MySQL right from Tarantool.
- [pg](https://github.com/tarantool/pg): Query PostgreSQL right from Tarantool.
- [prometheus](https://github.com/tarantool/prometheus): Instrument code and export metrics to Prometheus monitoring.
- [queue](https://github.com/tarantool/queue): Priority queues with TTL and confirmations.

> - [vshard](https://github.com/tarantool/vshard): Automatically distribute data across multiple instances.

Reviewer: I'd propose a preferential change. I'd consider making the list items grammatically parallel, i.e. all noun phrases or all imperative sentences.
Example:
```
mysql: A tool to query MySQL right from Tarantool.
queue: Priority queues with TTL and confirmation.
```
or:
```
mysql: Query MySQL right from Tarantool.
queue: Create priority queues with TTL and confirmation.
```

If the module you need is not listed here, there is a good chance we can add it.
Open an issue [on our GitHub](https://github.com/tarantool/docker).

### Data directories

> Mount a volume to these directories to make use of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mount these directories as volumes:
```
You can mount a volume to a container but not to a directory

- `/var/lib/tarantool` contains operational data
  (snapshots, xlogs and vinyl runs).

- `/opt/tarantool` is the directory for Lua application code.

### Convenience tools

> - `console`: execute it without arguments to open an administrative
>   console to a running Tarantool instance.
> 
> - `tarantool_is_up`: returns `0` if Tarantool has been initialized and
>   is operating normally.
> 
> - `tarantool_set_config.lua`: allows you to dynamically change certain
>   settings without the need to recreate containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `console`: Execute without arguments to open an administrative
  console to a running Tarantool instance.

- `tarantool_is_up`: Returns `0` if Tarantool has been initialized and
  is operating normally.

- `tarantool_set_config.lua`: Allows you to dynamically change certain
  settings without the need to recreate containers.
```
Use consistent capitalization after colons in all sections. I corrected this snippet according to what I saw above.

## Versions, tags, and release policy

The images are built and published on Docker Hub

> for each Tarantool release, and also for some beta

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for each Tarantool release as well as for some beta
```

Start it like this:

``` console

> $ docker compose up

Reviewer: Are you sure? Here's what my console says:
```
$ docker compose up
docker: 'compose' is not a docker command.
See 'docker --help'
```
I think it's `docker-compose up`

Author: Nope, it's the new syntax. https://docs.docker.com/compose/#compose-v2-and-the-new-docker-compose-command

```

### Add application code with a volume mount

The simplest way to provide application code is to mount your code
directory to `/opt/tarantool`:

```console
$ docker run \
  --name mytarantool \
  -p 3301:3301 -d \
  -v /path/to/my/app:/opt/tarantool \
  tarantool/tarantool \
  tarantool /opt/tarantool/app.lua
```

> Where `/path/to/my/app` is a host directory containing lua code
> and `app.lua` is the entry point of your application.
> Note that for your code to actually run, you must execute the main script explicitly,
> which is done in the last line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, `/path/to/my/app` is the host directory containing Lua code
and `app.lua` is the entry point of your application.
Note that for your code to run, you must execute the main script explicitly,
which is done in the last line.
```

### Build your own images

To pack and distribute an image with your code,
create your own `Dockerfile`:

```dockerfile
FROM tarantool/tarantool:2.10.0
COPY app.lua /opt/tarantool
CMD ["tarantool", "/opt/tarantool/app.lua"]
```

Then build it with:

```console
$ docker build -t company/appname:tag .
```

Please pay attention to the format of `CMD`: unless it is specified in
square brackets, the "wrapper" entry point that our Docker image
provides will not be called. It will lead to inability to configure
your instance using environment variables.

> We recommend using an exact tag to build from,
> that is, `2.10.0` or `2.10.0-centos7`, but not just
> `2.10` or `latest`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend building from an image with a precise tag,
that is, `2.10.0` or `2.10.0-centos7`, not
`2.10` or `latest`.
```

### `TARANTOOL_PORT`

Optional. Specifying this variable will tell Tarantool to listen for
incoming connections on a specific port. Default is `3301`.

### `TARANTOOL_PROMETHEUS_DEFAULT_METRICS_PORT`

> Optional. If specified tarantool will start http server on given port 
> and expose prometheus `metrics` endpoint with common metrics
> (fibers, memory, network, replication, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optional. If specified, Tarantool will start an HTTP server on the provided port
and expose the Prometheus `metrics` endpoint with common metrics
(fibers, memory, network, replication, etc.).
```

those instances, fetch the data snapshot and start replicating
transaction logs. In other words, it will become a slave. For the
multi-master configuration, other participating instances of
Tarantool should be started with the same `TARANTOOL_REPLICATION`.

> (NB: applicable only to versions later than 1.7)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(NB: Applicable only to versions later than 1.7.)
```

### `TARANTOOL_MEMTX_MEMORY`

Optional. Specifies how much memory Tarantool allocates to
actually store tuples, in bytes. When the limit is reached, `INSERT`
or `UPDATE` requests begin failing. Default is `268435456` (256
megabytes).

### `TARANTOOL_SLAB_ALLOC_FACTOR`

Optional. Used as the multiplier for computing the sizes of memory
chunks that tuples are stored in. A lower value may result in less

> wasted memory depending on the total amount of memory available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wasted memory, depending on the total amount of memory available
```

and the distribution of item sizes. Default is `1.05`.

### `TARANTOOL_MEMTX_MAX_TUPLE_SIZE`

Optional. Size of the largest allocation unit in bytes. It can be
increased if it is necessary to store large tuples. Default is
`1048576`.

### `TARANTOOL_MEMTX_MIN_TUPLE_SIZE`

Optional. Size of the smallest allocation unit, in bytes. It can be
decreased if most of the tuples are very small. Default is `16`.

### `TARANTOOL_CHECKPOINT_INTERVAL`

> Optional. Specifies how often snapshots will be made, in seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optional. Specifies how often snapshots are made, in seconds.
```

Default is `3600` (every 1 hour).

### `TARANTOOL_FORCE_RECOVERY`

Optional. When set to `true`, Tarantool tries to continue if there is an error while
reading a snapshot file or a write-ahead log file.
Skips invalid records, reads as much data as possible,
print a warning in console and start the database.

### `TARANTOOL_LOG_FORMAT`

Optional. There are two possible log formats:

* 'plain' — the default one.
* 'json' — with more details and with JSON labels.

More details can be found in the
[log module reference](https://www.tarantool.io/en/doc/latest/reference/configuration/#confval-log_format).

### `TARANTOOL_LOG_LEVEL`

Optional. Default value is 5 (that means INFO).
More details can be found in

> [logging log levels configuration](https://www.tarantool.io/en/doc/latest/reference/configuration/#cfg-logging-log-level).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[log levels configuration](https://www.tarantool.io/en/doc/latest/reference/configuration/#cfg-logging-log-level).
```
"Logging log" looks awkward

## Contributing

### Reporting problems and getting help

You can report problems and request
features [on our GitHub](https://github.com/tarantool/docker).

> Alternatively you may get help on our [Telegram channel](https://t.me/tarantool).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you may get help on our [Telegram channel](https://t.me/tarantool).
```
